# CS-340-Portfolio

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two.  What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To make a program readable, maintainable, and adaptable I modularize my code as much as possible.  I ensure that each function is completing one task and does that task efficiently.  This way each section of the code completes one task and when looking at the main function it is small and contains several function calls that are descriptive.  Looking at the CRUD module, this module completed the basic create, read, update, and delete tasks in MongoDB.  This module can be modified to connect to any MongoDB database and complete the same tasks in that database.  This means that in the future I will already have a module that can be used to connect to instances of MongoDB.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
When approaching a problem, I first break down all the individual pieces of the problem.  Once I have all the pieces, I look at the dependencies for each piece.  I can use those dependencies to find a logical starting point for the problem and work up the dependency tree.  In the future, I will take a similar approach to creating databases for clients.  I will import the data initial data manually, and then create a module to interface between the client and the database.  Then I would use that module to create a front end for the data and make it easily accessible to all users.  However, I don't think I will find myself leaning towards the dash framework again.  Currently, I would lean towards using JS to create the dashboard as that is where my experience is when designing websites.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists do a large range of things in all different industries.  At a high level, a computer scientist is someone who solves problems by optimizing tasks using computer technology.  This could mean that you are creating internal tools for the company you work for, or you could be working on a system for an ATM in the embedded world.  The role of a computer scientist is very important because their goal is to create a system that makes the user’s life/task easier to complete.  This is helpful for companies because it can increase productivity and profitability, but it is also great for the user because now their life is a little bit easier by improving on the tasks they complete in their daily life.
